+++
title = "Illuminating an ecosystem of partisan websites"
date = 2018-04-26T12:29:38+01:00
draft = false

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["Shweta Bhat", "**Sagar Joglekar**" , "Shehar Bano" , "Nishanth Sastry"]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference paper
# 2 = Journal article
# 3 = Manuscript
# 4 = Report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book section
publication_types = ["1"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "Illuminating an ecosystem of partisan websites"
publication_short = ""

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "This paper aims to shed light on alternative news media ecosys-tems that are believed to have influenced opinions and beliefs byfalse and/or biased news reporting during the 2016 US PresidentialElections. We examine a large, professionally curated list of 668hyper-partisan websites and their corresponding Facebook pages,and identify key characteristics that mediate the traffic flow withinthis ecosystem. We uncover a pattern of new websites being es-tablished in the run up to the elections, and abandoned after. Suchwebsites form an ecosystem, creating links from one website to an-other, and by ‘liking’ each others’ Facebook pages. These practicesare highly effective in directing user traffic internally within theecosystem in a highly partisan manner, with right-leaning sites link-ing to and liking other right-leaning sites and similarly left-leaningsites linking to other sites on the left, thus forming a filter bubbleamongst newsproducerssimilar to the filter bubble which has beenwidely observed amongconsumersof partisan news. Whereas thereis activity along both left- and right-leaning sites, right-leaningsites are more evolved, accounting for a disproportionate numberof abandoned websites and partisan internal links. We also examinedemographic characteristics of consumers of hyper-partisan newsand find that some of the more populous demographic groups inthe US tend to be consumers of more right-leaning sites."
abstract_short = ""

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
#   E.g. `projects = ["deep-learning"]` references `content/project/deep-learning.md`.
projects = ["modeluserengagement"]

# Tags (optional).
#   Set `tags = []` for no tags, or use the form `tags = ["A Tag", "Another Tag"]` for one or more tags.
tags = ["Complex Networks"]

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = ""
url_preprint = "https://arxiv.org/pdf/1803.03576.pdf"
url_code = ""
url_dataset = "https://www.nms.kcl.ac.uk/netsys/datasets/partisan-news/"
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
# url_custom = [{name = "Custom Link", url = "http://example.org"}]

# Does this page contain LaTeX math? (true/false)
math = false

# Does this page require source code highlighting? (true/false)
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""

+++
